<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="attributes_for_content_reuse" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>Attributes for Content Reuse</title>
  <shortdesc>Explore DITA attributes for conditional processing and content reuse through conref and copy-to mechanisms.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <author>Course Team</author>
    <critdates>
      <created date="2025-06-12"/>
    </critdates>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <p>DITA provides sophisticated attribute systems that enable precise control over when and how content appears in different publications. These attributes act as filters during the publishing process, allowing single-source content to serve multiple audiences and scenarios.</p>

    <section>
      <title>Conditional Processing Attributes</title>
      <p>These attributes allow you to include or exclude content based on specific conditions, supporting sophisticated conditional publishing.</p>
      <ul>
        <li><b>audience:</b> Targets user groups (e.g., admin, enduser). Example: <code>&lt;p audience="admin"&gt;Use the command line interface...&lt;/p&gt;</code></li>
        <li><b>platform:</b> Targets operating systems (e.g., windows, mac). Example: <code>&lt;p platform="windows"&gt;Double-click the installer...&lt;/p&gt;</code></li>
        <li><b>product:</b> Targets specific product versions. Example: <code>&lt;p product="professional"&gt;Configure single sign-on...&lt;/p&gt;</code></li>
        <li><b>otherprops:</b> Custom filtering for specific needs. Example: <code>&lt;note otherprops="gdpr"&gt;European customers must consent...&lt;/note&gt;</code></li>
      </ul>
      <p>DITA processors support complex filtering using Boolean logic and multiple attributes.</p>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>conref Attribute</title>
      <p>The <code>conref</code> attribute enables direct reuse of content elements from other topics. Referenced content stays synchronized across uses.</p>
      <p>Sample Usage:</p>
      <codeblock>
&lt;task id="userlogin"&gt;
  &lt;title&gt;Log In&lt;/title&gt;
  &lt;shortdesc&gt;This task guides users through logging in.&lt;/shortdesc&gt;
  &lt;taskbody&gt;
    &lt;steps&gt;
      &lt;step conref="snippets.dita#snippets/loginstep"/&gt;
    &lt;/steps&gt;
  &lt;/taskbody&gt;
&lt;/task&gt;
      </codeblock>
      <p><b>Best Practices:</b> Organize reusable content, use meaningful IDs, maintain appropriate granularity, and manage changes carefully.</p>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>copy-to Attribute</title>
      <p>The <code>copy-to</code> attribute creates topic copies with different contexts or metadata while maintaining original content integrity.</p>
      <p><b>When to Use:</b> When content needs to appear in multiple locations with distinct navigational or URL contexts.</p>

      <p><b>conref vs. copy-to Comparison:</b></p>
      <table>
        <tgroup cols="5">
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Feature</entry>
              <entry>conref</entry>
              <entry>copy-to</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>Granularity</entry>
              <entry>Element-level reuse</entry>
              <entry>Topic-level reuse</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Synchronization</entry>
              <entry>Automatic</entry>
              <entry>Manual</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>File Proliferation</entry>
              <entry>No</entry>
              <entry>Yes</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Context/URL</entry>
              <entry>Same context</entry>
              <entry>New navigation</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Complexity</entry>
              <entry>Simpler</entry>
              <entry>More complex</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>

      <p><b>Decision Framework:</b> Use <code>conref</code> for embedded reuse with synchronization, and <code>copy-to</code> for multiple locations with different contexts or URLs.</p>
    </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>
