<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="definition_and_purpose_shortdesc" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>Definition and Purpose</title>
  <shortdesc>The short description (&lt;shortdesc&gt;) in DITA provides a brief, standalone summary that helps users quickly evaluate content relevance.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <author>Course Team</author>
    <critdates>
      <created date="2025-06-12"/>
    </critdates>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <p>A short description (&lt;shortdesc&gt;) in DITA is a brief, standalone summary that follows the topic title. It offers a quick overview of the content, helping readers decide whether the topic is relevant and providing preview text in search results or navigation panels.</p>

    <section>
      <title>Core Function</title>
      <p>Short descriptions provide concise topic summaries that help users quickly determine if content meets their needs before investing time in reading the full topic.</p>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Multiple Functions of Short Descriptions</title>
      <ul>
        <li>Provide quick context to the reader.</li>
        <li>Enhance search engine indexing and UI previews (e.g., side panels, pop-ups, tooltips).</li>
        <li>Navigation aids in tables of contents and site maps.</li>
        <li>Link previews when topics are referenced from other content.</li>
        <li>Serve as metadata for content management and automated processing.</li>
        <li>Act as SEO descriptions for web-published content.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>

    <p>They are especially critical when content is reused in many different outputs where full context may not always be obvious. Well-written short descriptions reduce user friction, improve content findability, and decrease support costs by helping users locate relevant information faster.</p>
  </conbody>
</concept>
