<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="examples_effective_ineffective_shortdesc" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>Examples of Effective and Ineffective Short Descriptions</title>
  <shortdesc>This topic compares good and poor short description examples across topic types and user contexts to highlight best practices.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <author>Course Team</author>
    <critdates>
      <created date="2025-06-12"/>
    </critdates>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <p>Here's a comparison table and examples demonstrating effective short descriptions across different topic types and scenarios:</p>

    <table>
      <tgroup cols="4">
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry>Topic Type</entry>
            <entry>Poor Short Description</entry>
            <entry>Good Short Description</entry>
            <entry>Analysis</entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry>Concept</entry>
            <entry>Info about user management.</entry>
            <entry>Overview of user account creation, permission assignment, and access control policies for system administrators.</entry>
            <entry>The poor example is vague. The good example is specific, defines scope, and indicates target audience.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Task</entry>
            <entry>How to configure email settings.</entry>
            <entry>Set up SMTP servers, authentication, and security options to enable reliable email delivery from applications.</entry>
            <entry>The poor example repeats the title without adding value. The good example expands on the title, providing concrete actions and benefits.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Reference</entry>
            <entry>Data for APIs.</entry>
            <entry>Complete API reference for user management operations, including authentication, user creation, and permission assignment.</entry>
            <entry>The poor example is too generic. The good example specifies the type of data, its scope, and what it covers.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Troubleshooting</entry>
            <entry>Login issue help.</entry>
            <entry>Diagnose and resolve login problems caused by password policies, account lockouts, or authentication service connectivity issues.</entry>
            <entry>The poor example is unhelpful. The good example identifies the problem area and lists main cause categories, helping users determine relevance quickly.</entry>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>

    <section>
      <title>Industry-Specific Examples</title>
      <ul>
        <li><b>Software Development:</b><br/>
          <i>Title:</i> API Rate Limiting<br/>
          <i>Short Description:</i> Control API usage by limiting request frequency per user or application, preventing system overload while ensuring fair resource distribution.
        </li>
        <li><b>Healthcare Context:</b><br/>
          <i>Title:</i> Patient Data Privacy Compliance<br/>
          <i>Short Description:</i> Ensure medical records handling meets HIPAA requirements through access controls, audit logging, and secure transmission protocols.
        </li>
      </ul>
    </section>

    <section>
      <title>Short Descriptions for Different Audiences (Same Topic)</title>
      <ul>
        <li><b>Technical Audience Example:</b><br/>
          <i>Title:</i> Database Index Optimization<br/>
          <i>Short Description:</i> Improve query performance through strategic index design, covering composite indexes, query execution plans, and maintenance overhead considerations.
        </li>
        <li><b>Business Audience Example:</b><br/>
          <i>Title:</i> Database Performance Improvement<br/>
          <i>Short Description:</i> Speed up application response times and reduce system costs through database optimization techniques that require minimal downtime.
        </li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>
