<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="summary_part2_key_takeaways" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>Summary of Part II: Key Takeaways</title>
  <shortdesc>This summary highlights the key takeaways from Part II on DITA maps and their role in structured content organization and navigation.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <author>Course Team</author>
    <critdates>
      <created date="2025-06-12"/>
    </critdates>
  </prolog>
  <conbody>
    <ul>
      <li>DITA maps are the organizational backbone that assemble and organize individual topics into full documents or deliverables. They define content structure, sequence, and navigation.</li>
      <li>Maps do not contain content; they reference topics, enabling true single-sourcing and allowing the same topics to be organized differently across multiple publications.</li>
      <li>Hierarchical organization, combined with conditional attributes, supports creating tailored publications for multiple audience needs from one master map structure.</li>
      <li>Collection types and relationship tables create sophisticated cross-referencing capabilities without manual maintenance overhead.</li>
      <li>Automatic navigation generation ensures consistency across various output formats (HTML, PDF) while adapting to each format's strengths.</li>
      <li>Navigation design directly impacts user experience and should be planned with specific use cases and devices in mind.</li>
    </ul>
  </conbody>
</concept>
